I am going to sing these stanzas, everyone pay much attention'
I am going to sing the ballad of the Heroic Matamoros. '
On Tuesday, the third of June of nineteen hundred thirteen,
at ten o'clock in the morning, Lucio Blanco makes his appearance.
~e was bringing with him thousands of men, well armed and brave,
In order to take the city and make the people run.
The city of Matamoros had been fortified;
it was well connected with the power plant.
The people of Matamoros were ready for anything,
determined to defend their town, though it cost them their lives.
In leaflets they demanded the city from Major Ramos,
saying, «If you do not surrender it, we will take it anyway."
When these leaflets came into Major Ramos's hands,
he smiled and told the emissary, "We will not surrender the town."
For Major Ramos said, and Barragan said the same,
"There's no way Carranza can win, if you don't believe it, just wait and see."
Now the hour has arrived, for the time limit has expired;
The sound of bullets and the roar of cannon could be heard everywhere.
The people of Matamoros began to feel very happy
when the news came that Blanco was in retreat.
But an unfortunate ringing of the bells, by no one knows who,
encouraged the carrancistas, and Blanco turned back.
By three in the afternoon there were many dead and wounded,
and the regular troops were leaving for the United States.
The pressure was tremendous, the defense was to no avail;
those inside were but a few, those outside were many more.
The valiant volunteers led by Lopez and Chazarreta
were coming out of the trenches and firing from the sidewalks.
At ten o'clock in the morning several houses were burned,
but these were old scores that they settled as they entered.
They took prisoner several young boys who had fought them,
and they executed them in the marketplace next morning at six.
These young boys, who fought with a great deal of resolve,
caused in the enemy a good deal of admiration.
But an old artilleryman, who was also on the side of the government,
he was not harmed, because a carrancista defended him.
But for Antonio Chazarreta fortune was very bad;
he was taken prisoner, and he was sentenced to death.
The people of Matamoros abandoned all hope
when in the streets shouts of "Long live Carrania" were heard.
The people of Matamoros are in Texas, suffering misadventuresthey say they will never return as long as Lucio is in command.
Now with this I say farewell; I feel compassion for all,
and with sadness J tell you that we lost Matamoros.
In Matamoros you may see me, etc ..
And that Don Pablo Gonzalez was the one who saved our lives.
the firing squad was at the ready, when he fired his pistol in the air,
I belong to the famed Gray Automobile band;
my name is Higinio de Anda, and Ihave enjoyed myself in Paris.
In Matamoros you may see me, etc. 
the city of León, Mex.  